The landscape of color manipulation
today in CSS, it's not ideal.
We could use separate properties for
hue saturation and lightness.
Maybe hue and saturation can be stored
together to save some repetition,
some verbosity.
We can have pre computed variations, at
least that ensures consistency throughout
our design, but it's more repetitive.
And we could also have like separate
background color, whatever, text color,
whatever properties to create
variations within a part of the HTML.
None of this is ideal, but
this is what we have right now.
And of course, they can all coexist, they
can all be used together as we've seen.
However, things are going to get better.
The future is colorful.
In the future, we'll be able to have
functions that manipulate color.
These are already specified
in CSS color level five, and
they are actually implemented in Safari.
There is a color mixed function,
and actually Firefox also
implements this color mix function just
in a limited way, in a more limited way.
Where you can specify
a mixing color space and
percentages of the colors
that you're mixing.
So you can create tints,
you can like combine a color with white or
combine a color with black,
and create tints and shades.
There is a relative syntax.
Actually I proposed this a few years ago,
so
I'm very happy that it's finally
starting to get implemented.
There is a relative syntax that
lets you specify a base color and
then do math with all its components.
And we'll also get better color spaces for
adjustment as well like I can't wait for
LCH to be available everywhere.